Some of my positive attributes when working in a team or group include a proactive personality, a high need for achievement, and an apt self monitoring ability. Conversely, one trait I definitely need to work on is my networking ability in situations where I am not well acquainted with the majority of individuals around me. 
My experience this past Summer as a Software Engineering Intern at Veeva Systems demonstrates several of my favorable work-related qualities. The Senior Engineers in my team used to hold two weekly meetings with the Senior Director as well as the Chief Architect in order to discuss various structural issues regarding the Veeva Snap project. Having a limited knowledge of not only iOS development, but also of typical industry-level security, networking, and logging practices, at first I understood little of what was being discussed in these meetings; however, as time passed, I found that proactively sitting in on these meetings really helped me gain a more solid understanding of the end-product I was contributing to. 
In terms of the high need for achievement, I regularly was finishing my work ahead of the conservative deadlines that were set for me in the first few weeks of my internship, and this really helped increase the team’s overall level of confidence in not only my technical capabilities, but also in my overall ability to successfully follow-through with assignments, as well as to persevere through any initial setbacks by speaking with team-members with more experience in the given area of expertise.
Lastly, I exhibited an apt sense of self monitoring ability through behaving appropriately in vastly different situations. When I engaged in group activities with the other interns I was normally more light-hearted in nature, where as in meetings, I listened and took good mental and/or physical notes. Conversely, when I was demoing any of the features I had come up with, I took full control, and attempted to showcase my public speaking and overall presentation skills to the best of my ability. 
	One aspect I can work to improve on is being able to network in situations where I am largely unfamiliar with the individuals around me. The Fundamental Attribution Error may be the main cause of this deficiency, as I am often fearful of others overly judging my internal qualities due to any bad first-impressions I make, and completely ignoring the external circumstances that may have led to the behavior.
	On a macro-level, I would likely be characterized as a leader in terms of Mintzberg’s Managerial Roles Model because I am able to motivate others positively affecting their intensity, direction, and persistence without masking or unfavorably influencing their individualities. In other words, when working in a larger group, I try to motivate through my actions and by keeping people engaged on the task at hand, all the while avoiding micromanagement. At the same time, I am also comfortable with taking a back-seat when others in the group are more knowledgeable than myself on some given topic or function, due to my high need for both individual and group achievement. 
